#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 3cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Law Enforcement, Malfeasance, and Compensation of Enforcers
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Gary Becker and George Stigler
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash

\backslash

\end_layout

\end_inset

Summarized by Ken Kikkawa
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
A positive theory of legislation.
 Section I discusses the general circumstances that influence the vigor
 of enforcement and the frequency of violations.
 Section II considers the consequences of weak enforcement for the operation
 of the legal system.
 Section III makes two approaches for improving the incentives given enforcers.
 One is to penalize malfeasance and the other is to reward successful enforcemen
t.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The Market in Enforcement
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Lets step behind from the judgement of whether the law is a failure or not,
 since it is always the case that (from basic economic principle) when some
 people wish to behave in a certain way, they will pursue that wish as long
 as the amount they gain from it exceeds their willingness to pay for it.
 So if a person violates a law carrying a punishment equivalent to a fine
 of $10,000 he would be willing to spend up to that amount to avoid apprehension
 and conviction (bribe the officials etc).
 So how much should the level of enforcement be? It will depend upon four
 factors.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
First, the level of enforcement will depend upon the degree of honesty of
 the enforcers.
 For a given bribe, some enforcers will condone offenses that other men
 would prosecute.
 This degree of honesty will not only depend upon the supply of honesty
 in the population, but also on the amount spent to ascertain how honest
 a given person is.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Second factor is the structure of incentives to honesty embedded in the
 remuneration of enforcers.
 The correlation between the gain to enforcers from enforcing laws and the
 gain to violators from successful violation is positive.
 But the variation in the gain to violation is often much greater than that
 to enforcers from preventing or punishing violations, so that the quality
 of enforcement would tend to decline as the gain to violators increased.
 This is one of the reasons why the effective enforcement against petty
 crimes is more common than it is against major antitrust or other 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

big
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 violations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The third factor is the temporal pattern of violations.
 it is difficult to bribe enforcers in a non-repetitive crimes, but in repetitiv
e crimes, such as prostitution, gambling etc, the substantial transaction
 costs of ascertaining that the other party is reliable become manageable
 for both violators and enforcers.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The fourth factor is on whether a violation has a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

victim
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, a person who bears the large part of the cost of violation.
 Enforcement is generally more effective in violation which have victims,
 since the victims have a stake in apprehending violators.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The Quality of Enforcement and the Effectiveness of Laws
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Take the case for corruption.
 Consider a crime with $5,000 of fine.
 The violator would be willing to bribe up to $5,000 to the enforcer.
 If $5,000 were paid by the violator, it can be said that the violation
 is fully punished, since the violator paid the amount equivalent to the
 fine.
 Consequently, the deterrent effects of the bribe and the fine would be
 the same.
 Moreover, if the enforcers anticipate the $5,000 bribe, they will be willing
 to work for $5,000 less than they otherwise would.
 Then in this case, the state is in fact collecting the bribe.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Effectiveness could be improved if a bribe of $5,000 were alternative to
 punishment by a prison term with a monetary equivalent of a $5,000 fine.
 If the punishment was in the payment form (not a prison term), then the
 state would be collecting the fine (in the form of money).
 The monetization of punishments by bribery would improve the operation
 of the punishment system.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Effectiveness would be reduced if the amount paid in bribes were significantly
 less than the monetary equivalent of the punishment.
 Bribes might be less because of competition among the enforcers, or because
 the marketable resources of violators are less than the monetary value
 of punishment.
 In these cases, bribery reduces punishment and thus deterrence.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
How to Improve Enforcement
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Punishing Malfeasance
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If the state knew precisely whether if enforcers did perform adequately
 or not, and enforcers who are discovered not acting adequately are dismissed,
 enforcers could be induced to perform adequately simply by being paid what
 they cold get in other jobs requiring comparable skills.
 But this assumption that the state will know everything is not realistic.
 How then can corrupt enforcement be discouraged when detection is uncertain?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The answer is to raise the salaries of enforcers above what they could get
 elsewhere, by an amount that is inversely related to the probability of
 detection, and directly related to the size of bribes and other benefits
 from malfeasance.
 A difference in salaries will impose a cost of dismissal equal to the present
 value of the difference between the future earnings stream in enforcement
 and in other occupations.
 This cost can more than offset the gain from malfeasance.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Rewarding Enforcement
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Consider victim enforcement.
 Examples of victim enforcement would be; persons charged in excess of the
 legal ceiling on rents report their landlords because they anticipate a
 reduction in their rents.
 Laws against shoplifting are enforced primarily by stores, because they
 anticipate compensation etc.
 The amount of victim enforcement would be optimal if successful enforcers
 were paid the amount that they had suffered in damages, excluding their
 enforcement costs, divided by the probability that they are successful.
 If this amount were levied in fines against convicted violators, so that,
 in effect, violators compensated victims, the gain to victims from enforcement
 would be the same as the punishment to violators; hence these enforcers
 could not be corrupted.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Most victims will not literally become enforcers, but they wold hire 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

enforcement firms
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 to gather evidence and argue their cases.
 Free competition among these firms would ensure that enforcement was provided
 at cost.
 Moreover, these firms would not wait passively until contacted by victims,
 but would seek out evidence and bring it to the attention of victims.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Free competition among enforcement firms (as explained above) have many
 advantages.
 First, society wold use fewer resources to detect malfeasance because payment
 for performance reduces the gain from malfeasance.
 In addition, the right amount of self-protection by potential victims is
 encouraged, not the excessive (wasteful) self-protection that results when
 victims are not compensated, or the inadequate self-protection that results
 when they are automatically compensated.
 Further, rewards of innovation will spur technical progress in private
 enforcement as in other economic callings.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
