#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 3cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
A Theory of Allocation of Time
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Gary Becker
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash

\backslash

\end_layout

\end_inset

Summarized by Ken Kikkawa
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
III.
 Applications
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Hours of Work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If full income increased solely because of an increase in non-ernings income,
 there would simply be a parallel shift of the opportunity curve, with no
 change in commodity prices.
 The consumption of most commodities would have to increase.
 If all did, hours of work would decrease, for the total time spent on consumpti
on must increase if the output of all commodities did, and the time spent
 at work is inversely related to that spent on consumption.
 Hours of work could increase only if relatively time-intensive commodities
 were sufficiently inferior.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A compensated uniform rise in earnings would lead to a shift away from earnings-
intensive commodities and toward goods-intensive ones.
 Since earnings and time intensiveness tend to be positively correlated,
 consumption would be shifted from time-intensive commodities.
 This would however result in a reduction in the total time spent in consumption
, and thus an increase in the time spent at work.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The effect of an uncompensated increase in earnings on hours worked would
 depend on the relative strength of the substitution and income effects.
 The former would increase hours, the latter will reduce them.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Usually, rise in income tax induces at least a substitution effect away
 from work and toward leisure.
 But if a rise in the income tax were combined with an appropriate excise
 (consumption tax) on the goods used in time-intensive commodities or subsidy
 to the goods used in other commodities, there need be no change in full
 relative prices, and thus no substitution away.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
The Productivity of Time
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Assume a uniform increase only in the productivity of consumption time.
 The demand for goods will increase, but since the productivity of working
 time does not change, one has to work more.
 The productivity of working time has probably advanced more than that of
 consumption time, since this will make one work less (which is what happened).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Income Elasticities
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Traditional view is that family size will get smaller as income rises.
 If, however, birth control knowledge and other variables were held constant,
 economic theory suggests a positive relation between family size and income,
 and therefore that the traditional negative correlation resulted from positive
 correlations between income, knowledge, and some other variables.
 But the elasticity of family size with respect to income is though positive,
 pretty low.
 Increased expenditures on children largely take the form of increased expenditu
res per child, while the increase in number of children is very modest.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Transportation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Simple view: value of an hour equals average hourly earnings.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A rise in income resulting at least in part from a rise in earnings would
 increase the cost of commuting a given distance because the forgone value
 of the time involved would increase.
 This increase in commuting costs would discourage commuting in the same
 way that the increased demand for space would encourage it.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
The Division of Labor within Families
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Members who are relatively more efficient at market activities would use
 less of their time at consumption activities than would other members.
 Moreover, an increase in the relative market efficiency of any member would
 effect a reallocation of the time of all other members toward consumption
 activities in order to permit the former to spend more time at market activitie
s.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
IV.
 Substitution Between Time and Goods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Since hours worked have declined secularly in most developed countries,
 and so-called leisure has increased.
 A natural expectation is that 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

free
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 time would be more abundant, and be used more 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

leisurely
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 But time is used more carefully today.
 If there was a secular increase in the productivity of working time relative
 to consumption time (which probably happened as mentioned above), there
 would be an increasing incentive to economize on the latter because of
 its greater expense.
 Americans are supposed to be much more wasteful of food and other goods
 than persons in poorer countries, and much more conscious of time.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A rise in income due to a rise in earnings would increase the quality of
 goods purchased not only because of the effect of income on quality, but
 also because of a substitution of goods for time.
 An increase in a mother's time may induce her to enter the labor force
 and spend less on cooking by using precooked foods, or wealthier section's
 barber charge more and provide quicker service than those in poorer sections,
 because waiting by barbers is substituted for waiting by customers.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
