#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize letterpaper
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 3cm
\rightmargin 2.5cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
The Family and the State
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
There was no single equation in this paper
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Gary Becker and Kevin Murphy
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash

\backslash

\end_layout

\end_inset

Summarized by Ken Kikkawa
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Children are immature.
 They are not mentally developed, so they can't marry, they can't have contractu
al agreements, have to have caretakers etc.
 That's why laws protect them.
 Child abuse is punished etc.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We always want efficiency.
 A criterion for efficiency is that the monetary gains to those benefiting
 from a deviation do not exceed the monetary loss to those harmed.
 Unfortunately, children's immaturity sometimes makes efficient arrangements
 between children and parents harder.
 This difficulty in establishing efficient relations within families let
 us introduce the interpretation of the heavy state involvement in the family.
 We believe that many regulations of the family by the state, improve the
 efficiency of family activities.
 These regulations raise the welfare of children, but they also raise that
 of the parents, or at least raise the combined welfare of parents and children.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The efficiency perspective implies that the state is concerned with justice
 for children, if 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

justice
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 is identified with the well-being of children.
 But it does not imply, however, that the effect on children alone determines
 whether the state intervenes.
 The effect on parents is considered as well.
 The state tends to intervene when both gain or when the gain to children
 exceeds the loss to their parents.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We cannot prove that efficiency guides state involvement in the family,
 but we will show that state interventions in the market for schooling,
 the provision of old-age pensions, and access to divorce are consistent
 on the whole with the efficiency perspective.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Altruism Toward Children
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We assume that large majority of parents are altruistic to their children
 in the sense that parental utility depends on the number of children and
 the utility of each child as well as on their own consumption.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Sometimes cited against the importance of parents' altruism is that parents
 seldom insure the lives of their children.
 However, optimal insurance works to equalize the marginal utility of income
 in different states of the world.
 Support for the importance of altruism comes from the time and effort parents
 devote to lowering the probability of accidents, illness, or other harm
 to children.
 These 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

self-protection
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 activities respond not to the effect of a child's mishap on the marginal
 utility of parents' income but, rather, to their effect on the level of
 parents' utility.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The analysis says that frequent contact among members often raises the degree
 of altruism.
 Thus altruism may well have some of the properties of an addictive taste
 that is fostered by its consumption.
 This explains the fact that parents leave larger bequests to children who
 visit them more frequently.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

rotten kid
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 theorem says that under certain conditions, both altruistic parents and
 their selfish children work out efficient relations that maximize the combined
 resources of the family as a whole.
 Then state interventions are not necessary.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This theorem fails when parents do not give children bequests.
 They may not give because their altruism is weak, but even if their altruism
 is strong, they may not give when they expect their children to be much
 better off than they are (when economic growth is rapid etc).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Investments in the Human Capital of Children
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Even parents who are altruistic have to consider the trade off between investing
 in children's human capital and decreasing their own consumption.
 But if they can leave bequests, they can avoid this trade off since the
 bequests will help finance their investments in children.
 Altruistic parents who leave bequests will invest until the marginal rate
 of return on human capital equals the rate of return on assets.
 If the marginal rate of return on investments in children exceeds the rate
 of return on assets accumulated over the life cycle to provide either old-age
 consumption or gifts and bequests, parents who give gifts and bequests
 could invest more in children without lowering their own consumption by
 accumulating fewer assets.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When the rate of return on savings is less than the marginal rate on human
 capital, both parents and children can be better off with a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

contract
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 that calls for parents to raise investments to the efficient level in return
 for a commitment by children to repay in future.
 But children cannot make such contracts.
 So this is where government comes in.
 State intervention in the provision of education and other human capital
 would raise investments in children to the efficient levels (example: compulsor
y schooling).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But it might work in the other way.
 Children who expect gifts in the future might save less and increase current
 consumption, since they know that the parents will help them out.
 Children might not work hard in school since they know that parents will
 support them if their earnings were lower.
 To prevent those inefficiencies, parents could pre-commit the amount of
 future gifts.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Social Security and Other Old-Age Support
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At the end of the day, children help their parents.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Richer families who leave bequests rely less on their children.
 They can reduce bequests to finance consumption when they live longer than
 expected etc.
 So the opportunity to draw on bequests provides some kind of protection
 for the parents.
 But children will support them anyways.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Children in poor families will support parents who agree to invest the efficient
 amount in the children's human capital.
 Though the agreement is not in a form of 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

contracts
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, it is usually a social 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

norm
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 Public expenditures on the elderly, and public expenditure on children's
 education can fill the void if the norm breaks down (in a modern society,
 or in cities).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Divorce
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Altruistic parents who do no leave bequests might divorce, even when they
 know that the children will get hurt.
 The reason is that the children do not have a credible way to 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

bribe
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 their parents to stay if they cannot commit to old-age support or other
 future transfers to parents contingent on the parents not getting a divorce.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The story is different for parents who leave bequests.
 If divorce does not change the degree of altruism toward children and if
 a divorce only affects future earnings and the value of other tradable
 resources, then children would also be made better off if their parents
 decide to divorce.
 Parents raise their gifts and bequests to compensate children for any losses
 from the divorce.
 This is an implication of the rotten kid theorem.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But children might still suffer if the divorce reduces the non-tradable
 goods consumed by children (children gets sad).
 And if the effect on non-tradables lowers the marginal utility to children
 of tradable resources, altruistic parents who divorce would reduce their
 gifts of tradables, which will make children still worse off.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As shown earlier, degree of altruism responds to the frequency of contacts
 between parents and children.
 So after the divorce, divorced father might become less altruistic, and
 reduce support payments, which will make children even worse off.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So divorce generally makes children worse off.
 That's why in many countries, governments used to restrict divorce when
 parents had many children.
 But now, in the modern society with less children, the restriction has
 become much loose.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Optimal Population
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We now depart from the relationship between parents and children, and consider
 parents and potential children.
 Suppose that a potential child could commit to compensating his parents
 if he was born.
 This 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

contract
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 is Pareto improving, if the child would prefer to be born.
 But since such contracts are impossible, some children may not get born
 even when both parents and children could be better off.
 Thus both fertility and population growth are too low when compensation
 from unborn children to their parents would be Pareto improving.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But for parents who leave bequests, compensation lowers the utility of parents.
 Compensation from potential children will reduce net gifts to these children.
 But parents don't need those compensation to reduce gifts, since they can
 reduce bequests in any case if they choose to do so.
 So families with bequests do have the Pareto-efficient number of children.
 And compensation from unborn children will make parents worse off.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We know that poor families are less likely than richer ones to leave bequests.
 So we can say that fertility in poorer families are too low from optimal,
 and fertility in rich ones are optimal.
 Thus the aggregate private fertility rate is below the Pareto-efficient
 rate.
 This might sound strange since poor families have lots of children.
 But other factors may be causing large fertility rates of poor families,
 such as welfare, subsidies etc.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Political Competition Between Generations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Children cannot vote, so parents dominate the political power.
 So it is possible that old generations exploit future generations.
 But altruism limits their desire to do so.
 Altruistic parents, both who leave bequests and who do not, can use their
 political powers to raise education and other trainings, and if they wish,
 they can issue obligations to future generations that extract this increase
 in children's wealth.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Selfish parents might want to extract as much as possible, but altruistic
 parents will want to share some of the increased wealth with children.
 This means that future generations may also benefit from the political
 power of present generations.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
