#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 3cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Human Capital, Effort, and the Sexual Division of Labor
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Gary Becker
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash

\backslash

\end_layout

\end_inset

Summarized by Ken Kikkawa
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The major cause of the increased participation of married women appears
 to be the increased earning power of married women.
 The growth of earning power raised the forgone value of their time spent
 at child care and other household activities, which reduced the demand
 for children and encouraged a substitution away from parental time.
 Both of these changes raised the labor force participation of married women.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The gain of marriage was reduced, and the attractiveness of divorce increased,
 by higher earnings and labor force participation of married women, because
 the sexual division of labor within households became less advantageous.
 This raised the divorce rate.
 And the decline in marriage was reflected also in the increase in 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

consensual unions
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 Decline of divorce rate also made fertility go down.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This paper goes through all those kind of interactions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Human Capital and the Division of Labor
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The incentive to invest in human capital specific to a particular activity
 is positively related to the time spent at that activity.
 This explains empirically why married women have earned significantly less
 than married men since women have participated in the labor force much
 less than married men.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It can also be said that investments in specialized human capital produce
 increasing returns and thereby provide a strong incentive for a division
 of labor even among basically identical persons.
 Economies of scale from investments in activity-specific human capital
 encourage identical members of a household to specialize in different types
 of investments and to allocate their time differently.
 Earnings display increasing returns to the total time allocated to the
 activity, and it implies that earnings are maximized when all time is spent
 on just one activity.
 Thus there will be gains from trade even if all persons were identical,
 because each person can then concentrate on one activity.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This analysis can be applied to the division of labor.
 The advantages of investments in specific human capital encourage a sharp
 division of labor among household members.
 But it does not say anything about the sexual division of labor.
 Becker suggests that men and women have intrinsically different comparative
 advantages not only in the production of children, but also in their contributi
on to child care and possibly to other activities.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The Allocation of Effort
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Women's labor force participation increased.
 But earnings difference still remains.
 Why? Assuming that women have the household responsibilities, the earnings
 of women are adversely affected by household responsibilities even when
 they want to participate in the labor force as many hours as men, because
 they become tired, must stay home to tend to sick children or other emergencies
, and are less able to work odd hours etc.
 In this section Becker develops the model of the allocation of energy (effort)
 among various household and market activities, and shows how the allocation
 of energy is affected by the energy intensities of different activities,
 and also how its allocation interacts with the allocation of time and with
 investments in market and non-market human capital.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the model he assumes, earnings are proportional to the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

effective
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 quantity of time (effort per hour 
\begin_inset Formula $\times$
\end_inset

 hours worked).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The incentive to increase one's supply of energy is shown to depend positively
 on market human capital and other determinants of wage rates.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A decrease in hours worked and an increase in leisure, induced by a rise
 in property income, would save on energy and raise the energy value of
 time, because work is more effort-intensive than leisure.
 Then the energy spent on each hour of work and other activities would increase
 by the same proportion, which would raise hourly earnings and the productivity
 of each hour spent on other activities.
 Conversely, a compensated increase in market human capital that raises
 hours worked would reduce the energy value of time, and hence also the
 energy spent on each hour of work.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Division of Labor in the Allocation of Effort Between Husbands and Wives
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Since more energetic persons have a comparative advantage at effort-intensive
 activities, efficient marriage markets match more-energetic with less-energetic
 persons.
 A larger fraction of the time of energetic spouses would be allocated to
 effort-intensive activities like work where they have a comparative advantage,
 and a larger fraction of the time of sluggish spouses would be allocated
 to the household activities where they have a comparative advantage.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Assume that women have responsibility for child care and other housework
 for reasons unrelated to their energy or to the effort intensity of housework.
 Then married women allocate less energy to each hour of work than married
 men who spend equal time in the labor force.
 Then they earn less per hour than married men, so the household responsibilitie
s of married women reduce their hourly earnings below those of marries men
 even when both participate the same number of hours and have the same market
 capital.
 Then married women would invest less in market human capital than married
 men.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
