#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 3cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Competition and Democracy
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Gary Becker
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash

\backslash

\end_layout

\end_inset

Summarized by Ken Kikkawa
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Common notion of economists is that if an industry acts as a monopolist
 it would be desirable government policy either to break up the monopoly
 or, if that is undesirable because of increasing returns, to regulate and
 perhaps even nationalize it.
 But Becker doubts it!! The argument of this common sense goes as follows;
 Monopolists cause a maldistribution of resources, since the price charged
 by a monopolist exceeds marginal costs and an optimal distribution requires
 price equal to marginal cost.
 But government intervention does not always improve matters.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Competition in Ideal Democracies
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Here it is shown that an ideal democracy is very similar to an ideal free
 enterprise system in the marketplace.
 That is, political decisions would be determined by the values of the electorat
e and the political sector would be run very efficiently.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An ideal political democracy can be defined as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

an institutional arrangement for arriving at political decisions in which
 individuals endeavor to acquire political office through perfectly free
 competition for the votes of a broadly cased electorate
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
First, it is often said that transfer of activities from the marketplace
 to the political sector would reduce the role of competition.
 But the ideal political democracy is where competition is free in the sense
 that no appreciable costs or artificial barriers precent an individual
 from running for office, and from putting a platform before the electorate.
 So in this case, the transfer of activities, from market sector to state
 does not necessarily reduce the amount of competition, but does change
 its form from competition by enterprises to competition by parties.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The immediate aim of political parties is to be chosen by the electorate,
 just as the immediate aim of any firm is to be chose by consumers.
 This has several implications.
 First, there must be freedom of speech and expression in ideal democracies.
 Another is that the ideal political democracy would be one that perfectly
 satisfied the electorate's preferences.
 Since if one party did not satisfy what the electorate demanded, another
 party will gain more popularity by making their policies closer to their
 demand.
 So in the equilibrium, no one has any political power, parties have no
 choice but to realize the electorate's demand.
 The third implication is that only the most efficient parties would survive,
 as in the competitive market, only the most efficient firms will survive.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Competition in Actual Democracies
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The things discussed above is not what is happening in reality.
 The reasons are, market failure (the usual ones) and political imperfections
 (the ones discussed in this section).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The first failure.
 Since each person has only either 0 or 1 vote (a fixed number) - regardless
 of the amount of information he has and the intelligence used in acting
 on this information, and since minorities are usually given no representation,
 it does not 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

pay
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 to be well informed and thoughtful on political issues, or even to vote.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Second failure.
 Political competition is reduced by the large scale required for political
 organizations.
 Candidates have to have large offices etc, and those who like to compete
 but do not have sufficient resources cannot go into competition.
 And the scale of political activity is large as well, because many offices
 tie together numerous activities.
 For example, a president of a country has to have good policies for all
 fields, not just one specialized field.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So to answer the initial question, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

does the existence of market imperfections justify government intervention?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, the answer is no, if the imperfections in government behavior were greater
 than those in the market.
 It may be preferable not to regulate economic monopolies and to suffer
 their bad effects, rather than to regulate them and suffer the effects
 of political imperfections.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
